BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY

In simple terms, blockchain can be explained as a chain of blocks which contain data. This data mostly pertains to  the transactional data like transaction of currency, cryptocurrency, property deeds, etc. Blockchain technology is a peer to peer network with no reliance on any third party authority.The computers of the users are the nodes in this network and each node has the copy of the transactions that occur.Blockchain using the concept of consensus wherein when a transaction takes place, all the nodes in the network verify the transaction as the proof that the transaction took place. Blockchain technology also inculdes the concept of mining which basically involvs solving a complex computational problem and the miners who solves the problem first gets to add a block in the blockchain. The ability to complete the mining first requires lots of computational power and energy. Mining award is provided to the miner who adds the block in the chain.

Bitcoin is a publc distributed ledger based on blockchain technology. Blockchain is based on the POW (Proof Of Work) consensus which involves solving the mathematical problem during the mining of the block. On successful mining the miner receives 12.5 BTC which thens compensates the expensive hardware required for the purpose of mining. Mining can be done either individually or in mining pool when several miners pool in the resources and on success they distribute the rewars on based the contribution of each miner.

Another blockchain application in Ethereum which is similar to the working of Bitcoin blockchain but there is an additional computer program that is executed by every node in the Ethereum blockchain network. The consensus method used by Ethereum is also POW but it's said that in the upcoming new version Serenity, POS (Proof of Stake) will be implemented which might help in reducing the expenditure of mining.

Blockchain technology is the new definitin of trust between the sender and the receiver as they do not have to rely on any centralized authority like a bank or government. The transaction rate can increase benefiting the companies. Various sectors can adopt and adapt to this technology.